This May Be the Best Beef at Any Korean BBQ in New York

Cote
16 West 22nd Street, Flatiron
212-401-7986

When a Korean barbecue place wants to set itself apart from all the other Korean barbecue places, it has essentially three variables to play with: meat, heat and sides. (In this way it is similar to American barbecue, which it otherwise doesn’t resemble at all.) Cote, which has been wielding scissors and tongs on West 22nd Street since June, is resoundingly in the meat camp.

Specifically, the meat that Cote grills is prime beef aged anywhere from a week to four and a half months in a cooler downstairs, next to a small lounge. Like Gallagher’s, Cote hangs the sirloins, rib-eyes, hangers, skirts and so on behind glass so customers can inspect the inventory. Unlike Gallagher’s, Cote floods the room with light the color of freshly spilled blood, making it look like a set from “American Horror Story: Steakhouse.”

The two dining rooms upstairs aren’t nearly as gothic, although they are dark and moody. The walls are painted a deep blue-green, the floors are raw concrete, the tables are black soapstone. It is not exactly a date place — the hard surfaces amplify noise a little too well — but it is not exactly not a date place, either. People dress up to eat at Cote (it sounds like coat), perhaps because the Japanese-built yakiniku grills set into the center of the tables emit almost none of the smoke that can weave its way into your clothes after a night in one of the remaining barbecue palaces on 32nd Street.

After taking cocktail orders (the rosé slushie, decorated with a paper flamingo, tastes the way wine does when you are 8 years old), servers will offer a tour of the menu that ends with a strong endorsement of the “butcher’s feast.” This is a set menu, at $45 a person, with fluffy steamed eggs in a pot, two fundamental Korean stews, pickles, lettuce and, at the center of it all, a dealer’s choice of four cuts of beef. After all that has been cleared, vanilla soft serve under a squiggle of soy caramel appears in little paper cups with little wooden spoons.

The meats at my most recent butcher’s feast were hanger steak, the reddish-purple of a brand-new bruise; a rib-eye together with a flap of rib-eye cap, both pink and spiderwebbed with white veins of fat; a thickish slab of flatiron steak, said to be the product of a cow who had Wagyu on one side of the family and Angus on the other; and finally galbi, short ribs in a sweet soy marinade. The other cuts in the butcher’s feast vary but galbi is a constant, as it should be.

The meats came out early, while the gas grill warmed up. The wire cage over it was primed with a cube of beef fat, and then the beef went on, one cut at a time. Our server turned the meat once, then walked away, and one of my guests started to worry that the meat would burn. But the flames were low, and the beef browned gradually.
